The universe collapse will occur at 1:24:17 am... The observation of the collapse will be carried out in the largest observation hall of the national observatory, which receives images sent back by space telescopes operating in synchronous orbit and projects them onto a giant screen with an area of a basketball court... Now, the screen is still blank... Not many people are here, but they are authorities in theoretical physics, astrophysics, and cosmology. They are among the few in the world who can truly understand the significance of this upcoming moment... At this moment, they sit quietly, waiting for that moment, just like Adam and Eve, just made of mud, waiting for God's breath of life... Only the director of the observatory is pacing anxiously back and forth... The giant screen has malfunctioned, and the engineer responsible for maintenance hasn't arrived yet. If she can't come, the images from space telescopes will only be displayed on small screens, and the atmosphere of this great moment will be much less impressive... Professor Ding Yi walked into the hall... The scientists became alive ahead of time, and they all stood up together... Apart from the universe with a radius of 200 light-years, the only thing that can make them feel awe is this man... As usual, Ding Yi regarded everything as irrelevant and neither greeted anyone nor sat on the big and comfortable chair prepared for him. Instead, he strolled to the corner of the hall and admired a big ceramic plate in a glass cabinet there... This ceramic plate was the most valuable thing in the observatory and was a priceless cultural relic from the West Zhou Dynasty. It was covered by an ancient star chart of summer night's sky which had been etched thousands of years ago by eyes that had turned into dust long before... The fragile ceramic plate on the edge of destruction was weathered through countless changes of climate, and the star chart on it was blurred. But the starry sky outside the hall remained unchanged as ever...
Ding Yi took out a big pipe and filled it with tobacco from his jacket pocket, then confidently lit up and started smoking... Everyone was surprised about his smoking behavior because he had a serious bronchitis and didn't smoke before. No one dared to smoke in front of him either... Besides, smoking was forbidden in the observation hall, and the smoke from that big pipe was more than that from ten cigarettes... However, Professor Ding was qualified to do anything... He had founded unified field theory and realized Einstein's dream... His theory made a series of predictions about the universe on a large scale, which were accurately confirmed by actual observations... Later on, using the mathematical model of unified field theory, hundreds of supercomputers continuously worked for three years and came to an unbelievable conclusion: the universe which had expanded for two trillion years would collapse in two years. Now, two years are about to end in less than an hour... White smoke gathered and circled around Ding Yi's head, forming a dreamlike pattern, as if his inconceivable thoughts were floating out of his brain... The director cautiously walked to Ding Yi's side and said, "Mr. Ding, the governor will come today, and it's not easy to invite him. Please exert some influence on him and let him allocate some money to us... I shouldn't distract you with these matters, but the financial situation of our station has reached a desperate point. The state won't give us money this year, so we have to ask for it from the province... We are the main observational base of cosmology in China, but look at our current situation, we can't even afford the electricity for the radio telescope, and now we have already started to think about ways to raise money for it." The director pointed at the ancient star chart that Ding Yi was admiring.
"If it weren't for the cultural relic law, we would have sold it a long time ago." At this point, the governor and his two accompanying personnel walked into the hall, their faces showing signs of busy fatigue, and brought a hint of mundane atmosphere into this transcendent place. "Sorry for the delay, oh, hello Mr. Ding and everyone, it's nice to meet you all... Today is the first sunny day after continuous heavy rain, and the flood situation is very tense. The Yangtze River is already close to its highest level in 1998..." The director said many welcoming words excitedly, and then led the governor to Ding Yi's side, "Next, please let Mr. Ding introduce the concept of cosmic collapse to you..." He also winked at Ding Yi. Is it a good idea to start with my own understanding of this concept and then let Ding Lao and other scientists give advice? Firstly, Hubble discovered the redshift phenomenon of the universe, and I can't remember the year clearly... The spectra of all the galaxies we can observe are moving towards the red end. According to the Kepler effect, this indicates that all the galaxies are moving away from us... From the above phenomenon, we can draw the conclusion that the universe is expanding, and from this we can draw another conclusion that the universe was born in a big explosion 20 billion years ago... If the total mass of the universe is less than a certain value, it will expand forever; if the total mass is greater than a certain value, gravity will gradually slow down the expansion until it stops. Then, under the influence of gravity, the universe will collapse. The total amount of matter that can be observed in the universe used to lead to the first conclusion, but later it was found that neutrinos have mass, and a large amount of previously unobserved dark matter was found in the universe, which greatly increased the total mass of the universe.
This shifted people's focus to the latter conclusion that the expansion of the universe will gradually slow down and finally collapse. All galaxies in the universe will gather towards a gravitational center. At this time, due to the Kepler effect, all galaxies in our eyes will move towards blue end, namely blue shift. Now, Professor Ding's unified field theory has calculated the precise time for the universe to transition from expansion to collapse... "Brilliant!" The director complimented with a few claps. "It's rare to see a leader with such an understanding of basic science as you have. I think Professor Ding feels the same way..." He winked at Ding Yi again... "He is basically right... Ding Yi slowly knocked the ash onto the clean carpet... "Yes, yes, if Ding Lao thinks so..." The director is so happy that his eyebrows dance... "Right to the extent of showing his superficiality..." Ding Yi dug out a scoop of tobacco from his upper pocket... The director's expression froze, and there were low laughs from the scientists... The governor smiled generously, "I also studied physics, but I have forgotten most of it in the past thirty years. Compared with you here, my knowledge of physics and cosmology is probably not even superficial... Oh, I only remember Newton's three laws now..." "But I am still far from understanding it..." Ding Yi lit his newly packed cigarette... The director shook his head with a wry smile... "Mr. Ding, we live in two completely different worlds..." The governor said with emotion, "My world is a realistic, unpoetic, and tedious world. We are like ants all day long, and our vision is limited like ants... Sometimes when I come out of the office late at night, looking up at the starry sky has become a rare luxury... Your world is full of emptiness and mystery. Your thoughts span across space of hundreds of light years and time of billions of years. The earth is just a grain of dust in the universe for you.
The present age is just an instant that is too short to measure in eternity. The entire universe seems to exist to satisfy your curiosity... To be honest, Mr. Ding, I am a little jealous of you... I dreamed about such a world when I was young, but entering your world is too difficult..."
"But it is not difficult tonight. You can at least stay in Ding Lao's world for a while and witness the greatest moment in the world together with me," said the president of the observatory... "I am not so lucky... everyone, I'm sorry to say that there are many dangers in the Yangtze River dam, and I have to rush to the general prevention department. Before I go, I have a question to ask Ding Yi. These questions may seem childish and ridiculous to you, but I have been thinking about them for a long time without finding the answer... The first question is that the sign of collapse is that the universe changes from redshift to blueshift, and we will see all the spectra of galaxies moving towards the blue end at the same time... However, the farthest galaxy that can be observed is 2 billion light years away from us. According to your calculations, the universe will collapse at the same time. In that case, it will take us 2 billion years to see the blue shift of these galaxies. Even for the nearest centaur constellation, it will take four years to see its blue shift... Ding Yi slowly exhaled a puff of smoke, which floated in the air like a miniature spiral galaxy..." "Very good, you can see this point, which makes you look like a physics student, although still a superficial student... Yes, we will see all the blue shifts of spectra in the universe at the same time rather than see them over time from four years to 2 billion years. This comes from quantum effects on a large scale in the universe, and its mathematical model is very complex, which is the most difficult concept to express in physics and cosmology. It is hopeless for you to understand it... But from this you have got your first enlightenment.
It reminds you that the effect of collapse of the universe is much more complex than people can imagine... Do you still have any questions? Oh, you don't need to go right now. What you need to deal with is not as urgent as you think."
"Compared with your entire universe, the flood of the Yangtze River is certainly insignificant... But Dante, while the mysterious universe is fascinating, we still have to live in reality... I really need to go. Thank you for your teachings, and I wish you all could see what you want to see tonight..." "You don't understand what I mean," said Ding Yi, "there must be many people fighting the flood on the Yangtze River embankment now..." "But I have my responsibility, Ding Lao, I have to go back..." "You still don't understand me. I mean, the people on the embankment are sure to be tired. You could let them leave too..." All people were shocked... "What... Leave? ... For what? To watch the collapse of the universe?" "If they are not interested in it, they can go home and sleep..." "Ding Lao, you are joking." "I am serious. What they are doing now is meaningless..." "Why? ..." "Because of the collapse..." After a long silence, the governor pointed to the ancient star chart displayed in a corner of the hall and said, "Ding Lao, the universe has been expanding, but from ancient times to the present, what we see of the universe has not changed... The collapse is the same. Compared with the space-time of the universe, human space-time is so small that it can be ignored. Except for its pure theoretical significance, I don't think the collapse will have any impact on human life... Maybe we won't even observe the slight displacement of galaxies caused by the collapse in a hundred million years, if we still exist at that time..."
"Fifteen billion years," Ding Yi said, "if we use the most sophisticated instruments we have now, it will take us fifteen billion years to observe such displacement. By then, the sun will have gone out.
Maybe we won't exist anymore..." "And it will take two billion years for the universe to completely collapse. So, human beings are like a small drop of dew on the big tree of the universe. In its short lifespan, it is absolutely unable to feel the growth of the tree... You wouldn't agree to those ridiculous rumors on the Internet that say the Earth will be squeezed flat by the collapse, right?" At this point, a young girl walked in, pale-faced and with dull eyes. She was the engineer responsible for the giant screen display... "Xiaozhang, you're outrageous! Do you know what time it is now?!" The director shouted at her in a furious manner... "My father just passed away in the hospital..." The director's anger immediately vanished. "I'm sorry, I didn't know, but look..." The engineer didn't say anything else. She just silently walked over to the control computer in front of the big screen and began to check the malfunction... Ding Yi walked over with his pipe slowly... "Oh, girl, if you really understand the meaning of the collapse of the universe, your father's death wouldn't make you so sad..." Ding Yi's words angered everyone present. The engineer stood up abruptly, her pale face turning red with anger, her eyes full of tears.... "You are not of this world. Perhaps, compared to your universe, my father means nothing, but he is important to me, to us ordinary people. Your collapse is just a small change in the frequency of light that is so weak in the night sky that no one can see it without a precision instrument amplifying it tens of thousands of times. What is collapse? It means nothing to ordinary people. What's the difference between the expansion or collapse of the universe to us? But my father is important to us, do you understand? When the engineer realized who she was shouting at, she restrained herself and turned back to her work... Ding Yi sighed and shook his head, saying to the governor, "Yes, as you said, two worlds...
Our world," he waved his hand to include himself and the group of physicists and cosmologists, then pointed at the physicists, "is at a scale of billions of billions of one-millionth of a millimeter," and then pointed at the cosmologists, "is at a scale of billions of light years... It's a world that can only be grasped with imagination; while your world has flooding on the Yangtze River, tight budgets, and fathers who have passed away and are still alive... a real world. But sadly, people always try to separate these two worlds... "Do you see them as separate..." said the governor... "No. Basic particles are small, but they make up us; the universe is big, but we are in it... Every change in the micro and macro world affects everything about us."
"Is the upcoming collapse of the universe related to us?"
Ding Yi laughed suddenly. His laugh was filled with nervousness as well as a mysterious something that made people feel an apprehension... "Alright, the student in the physics department, please recite the relationship between time and space and matter as far as you remember..." The governor recited obediently like a primary school student, "Modern physics formed by relativity and quantum mechanics has proved that time and space cannot exist independently without matter. There is no absolute time and space. Time, space and the material world are integrated..." "Very good, but who really understands it? You? You?" Ding Yi asked the governor. Then he turned to the dean, "You? ", and to the engineers who were immersed in their work, "You? ". Then he turned to other technicians in the hall, "You all? ", and finally to the scientists, "Even you? ... No, you don't understand... You still think about the universe in terms of absolute time and space just as natural as standing on the ground. Absolute time and space are like the ground of your thinking. Without it, you have no grasp of everything...
When it comes to the expansion and collapse of the universe, you think it's just the dispersion and convergence of galaxies in space in absolute time and space..." As he spoke, he walked to the glass display case, reached out to open the door and took out the precious star chart. He put it on his hand and touched it with appreciation... The dean lifted his hands nervously to protect the star chart which had been placed there for more than 20 years without anyone daring to touch it. The director anxiously waited for Ding Yi to put the star map back in place, but he didn't. Instead, he raised his hand and threw the star map away! The extremely valuable ancient treasure was broken into countless pieces of terracotta on the carpet. The air froze., and everyone was dazed. Only Ding Yi was still sauntering with ease, the only moving factor in this frozen world, and his voice was still uninterrupted. "Space-time and matter are inseparable. The expansion and collapse of the universe include the entire space-time. Yes, friends, it includes the entire space and time." Another sound of breakage was heard, which was a glass water cup falling from a physicist's hand. The cause of their shock was different from others, not the star chart, but the meaning behind Ding Yi's words. "Are you saying that..." One astronomer fixed his eyes on Ding Yi, unable to speak. "Yes..." Ding Yi nodded and said to the governor, "they understand..." "So, this is the meaning of the negative time parameter in the calculation results of the unified field mathematical model?" A physicist exclaimed with sudden realization. Ding Yi nodded. "Why didn't you publish it earlier? You are so irresponsible." Another physicist angrily said. "What's the use of it? It can only cause chaos worldwide. What can we do about space-time?" The governor asked in confusion, "What are you all saying? Collapse..." The director, who is also an astrophysicist, murmured dreamily.
"The collapse of the universe will have an impact on human beings, right?" "Impact? No, it will change everything." "What can it change?"
Scientists are all in a hurry to sort out their own thoughts, no one answers him. "Just tell me what will happen when the collapse happens, or when the blue shift of the universe starts." The governor asked anxiously. "Time will reverse..." Ding Yi replied. "...Reverse?..." The governor looked at the director and Ding Yi in confusion. "Time reversal means time reversal." The director explained briefly. At this time, the large screen was repaired, and a magnificent universe appeared in front of everyone. In order to make the collapse more intuitive, the images sent back by space telescopes are processed by computers through frequency conversion, and the color effects generated by frequency changes are visually exaggerated. Now all the stars and galaxies on the screen are red, which symbolizes the redshift of the expanding universe. When the collapse starts, they will turn blue at the same time. The corner of the screen shows a countdown of blue shift occurrence: 150 seconds away... "Our time has expanded with the universe for two billion years, but now, the expansion is only left with less than three minutes, and then time will shrink with the universe contraction and time will run backwards..." Ding Yi walked up to the dazed director and pointed at the smashed star map plate, "Do not feel sorrowful for this ancient object, when the blue shift appears, the fragments will soon be restored, it will return to the display cabinet and after many years, it will be buried deeply in the soil. After a few thousand years, it will return to the burning kiln and then return to the hands of the ancient astronomer as a blob of muddy clay..." He walked over to the young female engineer, "Do not mourn for your father, he will soon be resurrected and you will meet again soon...
If your father is important to you, you should feel comforted because in the collapsing universe he is longer-lived than you and he will watch you leave this world as a baby..." Yes, we old people have just started our life journey while you young people are already approaching the end or say, at the beginning..." He walked up to the governor again and said, "If it didn't happen in the past, then the flood in the Yangtze River will never overflow its banks during your term, because there are only one hundred seconds left in this universe... The future in a collapsing universe is equivalent to the past in an expanding universe... The greatest danger will emerge in 1998, but that will be during your infancy in life and it won't be your responsibility anymore... There is one minute left, no matter what you do now will have consequences in the future. You can do what you like without worrying about the future, because there is no future left in this time..."
As for me, I am just doing what I like, but I couldn't do it in the past due to bronchitis." Ding Yi dug a bowl of tobacco from his pocket with a big pipe and calmly began to smoke. Blue shift countdown, 50 seconds left..." "This is impossible!", the governor exclaimed. "It doesn't make sense from a logical standpoint, time reversal? Everything will happen in reverse, do we speak backwards? This is too hard to imagine!" "You will adapt to it..." Blue shift countdown, 40 seconds left..." That means everything in the future will be repeated, and history and life will become so boring..." "It won't be like that. You will be in another time, where the past now will be your future. We are already in the future of that time... You cannot remember the future. When the blue shift starts, your future will be blank. You won't remember or know anything about it..." Blue shift countdown, 20 seconds left..." This is impossible!" "You will find out how reasonable and natural it is to move from old age to childhood, from maturity to naivety.
If someone talks about another direction of time, you may think they are daydreaming... It's coming soon, in a few seconds. In a few seconds, the universe will pass through a time singularity, where time doesn't exist for a moment... Then... we will enter a collapsing universe... Blue shift countdown, 8 seconds left..." "This is impossible! Really impossible!..." "It's okay, you will know soon..." Blue shift countdown, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, 0... The starlight in the universe changes from the irritating red to a hollow white... Time singularity... The starlight changes from white to a serene and beautiful blue, the blue shift has begun, the collapse has started... ……The collapse started, the blue began to move, the beautiful blue color turned into serene white light stars…… There are wonders at some point in time……
... The white hole is filled with red light for the impatient person caused by the stars in the universe... Zero, one, two, three, four, the five-second timer reverses to blue "… you will know soon, there is no relationship between you and me." "...! Maybe it's not true.! Maybe it's not possible." ... The eight-second timer reverses to blue "... The universe will collapse into us, then... at a certain point in time, we will pass through a strange moment in the universe, there are still dozens of seconds left, and it's almost over... It is said that people who talk about dreams are considered as foolish. If there are still people talking about time, like what you talked earlier in this context.
